# Pokemon
Changing the package statement ~
Question 3-6 Pokémon
Designer: Zhou Junhong, Liu ZhiChen
Tester: Nie Qiushi, Wang Biao, Zhang Shaofeng
Description：
Máo máo and Fatherpucci are freshmen at SUSTech. When they were about to experience
university life, they found that the State Press and Publication Administration had issued a "Notice on
Further Strict Management to Effectively Prevent Minors from Indulging in Online Games". Because
they are under 18, they are limited to playing games for 3 hours a week. However, they just took
the Java course, they plan to write a Pokémon game by themselves. The main framework has
been set up. Please help them to complete the code together.
3. [Easy] Skill (5 points)
Design a class named Skill . It describes the information of a certain skill and will be used in
Battle .
3.1. Attributes： private String name : Represents skill's name.
private int cd : Represents skill's Cool Down Time, it will be released when the cd is 0 in
the battle.
6 0 1 1 4 5 1 4 1 Thekillerbroughtthemtothecrimescene 1 Ifyoujustusecommonsense 1 Whatiftheglowingpaintwasthemark 1 Inactually,theknifewasfoundunderthetable 31 thetablewasbothmarked 12345678 0Qi Fei 12
private int atk : Represents skill's damage while releasing.
3.2. Constructors:
NOTICE:
Please check the validity of the parameters: All int type parameters should be greater than 0. If
any invalid parameter is detected, please set the attributes to default values:
The detailed cd description will be explained in the battle.
3.3. Getters:
In these getters, please just return the corresponding attributes.
Notice that we don't need any setters as the attributes are not required to be modified by other
classes.
Submission：
For this question, submit one java file: Skill.java .
4. [Easy] Pokemon (15 points)
Design a class named Pokemon . Pokemon will fight in the battle .
4.1. Attributes： private String name : Represents Pokémon's name such as “Pikachu”.
private int hp : Represents Pokémon's remaining health.
private int atk : Represents Pokémon's normal attack damage.
private int level : Represents Pokémon's level.
private int speed : Represents Pokémon's agility which will determine the order of attack.
private int rateAtk : Represents Pokémon's atk increased per level.
private int rateHp : Represents Pokémon's hp increased per level.
Skill skill : Represents Pokémon's skill.
NOTICE:
To simplify the question, each Pokémon has only one skill.
1 public Skill(String name, int cd, int atk) 1 name = "error"; cd = 51; atk = 0; public String getSkillName() public int getSkillCd() public int getSkillAtk() 123
4.2. Constructors:
NOTICE:
You don't need to check the data input, we guarantee the validity of the data input.
4.3 Setters:
In these setters, please just replace the corresponding attribute of the object with the input
parameter.
4.4. Getters:
In these getters, please just return the corresponding attributes.
4.5. Other Methods:
4.5.1. levelUP
This method will be called to increase Pokémon's level by input parameter up , which represents
the number of levels it will increase. Meanwhile, its atk and hp will also increase by the
functions below:
4.5.2. learnSkill
Pokémon will learn the skill of the input parameter skill , this will usually happened during a
level up. However, you are NOT required to judge when to invoke this method because it will
be called manually when we test.
NOTICE:
You are free to design other methods to help you complete this assignment, including but not
limited to getters and setters.
public Pokemon(String name, int hp, int atk, Skill skills, int level, int speed, int rateAtk, int rateHp) 1 public void setHp(int hp) public void setAtk(int atk) public void setSpeed(int speed) 123 public int getSpeed() public int getHp() public int getAtk() 1231 public void levelUP(int up) 1 public void learnSkill(Skill skill)
Submission
For this question, submit two java files: Pokemon.java , Skill.java .
5. [Medium] Player (15 points)
You need to write a public class named Player, which is used to create player account and store
player data (which are pokemons).
(PS: The name of all variables must strictly match the name bolded in the question)
5.1. Attributes:
You are required to write member variables account, password, mail, phoneNumber into the
class.
private final String account : account number, generated by method
generateAccount() described in 5.6
private String password private Mail mail private PhoneNumber phoneNumber ArrayList<Pokemon> pokemons : an ArrayList to store Pokémons owned by this player. Don't
forget to create an ArrayList object with new .
You need to write two additional classes named Mail and PhoneNumber, each has a String to
store mail or phone number, and a constructor. What you need to pay attention to is the all
members must be private, because you need to keep your data safe. However, the member in
Mail and PhoneNumber is not required to be private. Your Mail and PhoneNumber should be
two classes declared in the file Player.java .
The validity of the structure of mail and phone number are not the point we check, so you don't
need to verify the validity of their structure.
5.2. Constructors:
You need to write three constructors for each of the three situations for creating an account:
1.Using mail to create an account.
2.Using phone number to create an account.
3.Using both to create an account.
5.3. Checkers:
public Player(Mail mail, String password) public Player(PhoneNumber phoneNumber,String password) public Player(Mail mail, PhoneNumber phoneNumber,String password) 123 public boolean checkIdentity(Mail mail, String password) public boolean checkIdentity(PhoneNumber phoneNumber, String password) 12
You need to write two methods to check the identity of player when he/she logs in. Only when the
data input is match the data you stored means the player passes it successfully. If succeed return
true, else return false.
5.4. Setters:
You need to write two methods to set (or to change) the mail or phone number. You need to
check the player's identity first, after that you can change the data. If succeed return true, else
return false.
5.5. Getters:
In these getters, please just return the corresponding attributes.
5.6. Account Generator:
You need to write a method that can generate account automatically. The account must be a
random number string with length 7, and the first number of it can't be 0.
Attention:
1. This method should be invoked when you create an account. The return value should be
assigned to the attribute account . 2. Once your account is created, it can't be changed anymore.
5.7. Change Password:
You need to write two method to change your password. You need to check the player's
identity first, after that you can change the password. If succeed return true, else return false.
5.8. Add Pokemon:
You need to write a method to add Pokémon to the ArrayList<Pokemon> pokemons . We ensure
the input Pokémon object is valid.
public boolean setMail(PhoneNumber phoneNumber, String password, Mail mail) public boolean setPhoneNumber(Mail mail, String password, PhoneNumber phoneNumber) 12 public String getAccount() public Mail getMail() public PhoneNumber getPhoneNumber() 1231 public String generateAccount() public boolean changePassword(PhoneNumber phoneNumber, String oldPassword, String newPassword) public boolean changePassword(Mail mail,String oldPassword, String newPassword) 121 public void addPokemon(Pokemon pokemon)
Submission:
For this question, submit three java files: Player.java , Pokemon.java , Skill.java .
PS: Your Mail and PhoneNumber should be two classes declared in the file Player.java .
6. [Hard] Battle (20 points)
After finished the class Player and Pokemon, you finally can write a battle system. You are
required to write a class named Battle, which contains only one static method named tatakai.
6.1 tatakai:
The process of a battle is as below. I know this should be a hard time, but please read the
following text carefully:
Process
The round limit is 50.
First you need to input two players p1 and p2. Then you should get the first Pokémon from the
two players' pokemon list seperately. Compare these two Pokémons' speed, the faster one will
start first (if same, then p1 start first). After these preparations, the battle starts.
Pokémons attack each other in each turn. The rule of generating damages is: pok2.hp -= pok1.atk; pok1.hp -= pok2.atk;
If Pokémon has skill, it will use its skill in the battle when the cd is reached. The cd starts
calculating at the moment when the Pokémon get into the stage, when the cd is reached,
Pokémon will replace its normal attack by skill. The skill can be used infinite times. When
the skill is released, it start to count cd again.
If one Pokémon's hp comes to 0, this round over and this Pokémon will quit the stage. The
Pokémon whose hp is not 0 will stay on the stage. The player who lost his Pokémon should let
his next Pokémon get into the stage, and do speed judge again to decide which side starts
first, and repeat the battle above, until one player loses all his Pokémons, or the round has
reach the limit, the game is over.
When the game is over, the one who still have Pokémon is the winner, you should return this
player. If the round has reach the limit (at the end of round 50) and no one lose, the game ends
in a draw, and you should return null instead of player.
Also, before return statement, the hp of all the Pokémons should be refilled to its initial value.
NOTICE：
The round you record over the upper limit of the number of rounds and the round you
used to calculate when to release the skill are not the same round.
We ensure the two Players both have at least one Pokémon in the list pokemons when
tatakai.
Submission:
1 public static Player tatakai(Player p1, Player p2)
For this question, submit four java files: Battle.java , Player.java , Pokemon.java , Skill.java .
Test Procedure Sample
Since pokemon1.speed < pokemon2.speed , pokemon2 attack first.
Below shows what happens in each round:
player1 = new Player(new Mail("1@mail.sustech.edu.cn"), new PhoneNumber("1"), "1"); player2 = new Player(new Mail("2@mail.sustech.edu.cn"),new PhoneNumber("2"), "2"); Skill skill1 = new Skill("skill1", 2, 3); Skill skill2 = new Skill("skill2", 3, 2); Pokemon pokemon1 = new Pokemon("pokemon1", 10, 1, skill1, 1, 1, 3, 3); Pokemon pokemon2 = new Pokemon("pokemon2", 10, 1, skill2, 1, 2, 3, 3); player1.addPokemon(pokemon1); player2.addPokemon(pokemon2); Player winner = Battle.tatakai(player1, player2); 12345678910 -- Round 1 -- pokemon1.hp = 10; pokemon2.hp = 10; pokemon2 attack first, its attack value is normal attack damage: 1; pokemon1.hp = 9; Then, it's pokemon1's turn to attack, the attack value is normal attack damage: 1; pokemon2.hp = 9; -- Round 2 -- pokemon1.hp = 9; pokemon2.hp = 9; pokemon2 attack first, its attack value is normal attack damage: 1; pokemon1.hp = 8; Then pokemon1's skill is ready, it's attack value is skill damage: 3; pokemon2.hp = 6; -- Round 3 -- pokemon1.hp = 8; pokemon2.hp = 6; pokemon2's skill is ready, its attack value is skill damage: 2; pokemon1.hp = 6; Then, it's pokemon1's turn to attack, the attack value is normal attack damage: 1; pokemon2.hp = 5; -- Round 4 -- pokemon1.hp = 6; pokemon2.hp = 5; pokemon2 attack first, its attack value is normal attack damage: 1; pokemon1.hp = 5; Then pokemon1's skill is ready, it's attack value is skill damage: 3; pokemon2.hp = 2; -- Round 5 -- pokemon1.hp = 5; pokemon2.hp = 2; pokemon2 attack first, its attack value is normal attack damage: 1; 12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031
pokemon1.hp = 4; Then, it's pokemon1's turn to attack, the attack value is normal attack damage: 1; pokemon2.hp = 1; -- Round 6 -- pokemon1.hp = 4; pokemon2.hp = 1; pokemon2's skill is ready, its attack value is skill damage: 2; pokemon1.hp = 2; Then pokemon1's skill is ready, it's attack value is skill damage: 3; pokemon2.hp = -2; Since pokemon2.hp < 0, pokemon1 win. The winner is player1.
